Lilliana Robinson: So everyone is watching the recording. I promised Jake that we will keep this internal
Lilliana Robinson: so make sure that we do not share this out. I know that we never do. But I just wanna say that. So we're super excited, Jake. We've actually spoken the most about you during this program than we ever have. I think these founders are particularly very hyped up about jobs to be done, which is amazing, like so many of these guys just have
Lilliana Robinson: loved the process to go on headfirst into it. We require everyone to get to a Y before the Y. So they all did those presentations 2 weeks ago.
Lilliana Robinson: In person it was awesome. So that's kind of the stage they're at. Some people are going into a second round of jobs to be done to either validate the other side of a marketplace or kind of pivot and do a new screening criteria set. But a lot of other people now are ready to implement the insights that they have, and like.
Lilliana Robinson: follow those implications and make those iterations. So this is the perfect time to be meeting with you, and tomorrow we're gonna capstone this experience with Bob. So I will hand it over to you
Lilliana Robinson: guys. You already know, we've talked about Jake. He's the founder of zest our our cooking app. That's out on the iphone and android app store right now. I've talked about how they had virality when they came into program and fixed all of that, Jake. They've watched your full demo day set. We watched it together last week.
Lilliana Robinson: So they have context there. And Jake is just a great example of how to implement jobs to be done. And most of the things we taught in programs. So start pupil here, and we're really pleased to have him cause he has never been able to come back and share his time like this. This is a treat for you guys. So
Lilliana Robinson: without further ado, I'll give it to you, Jake.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Well, I guess. Let me preface with 2 things. Number one is, I view.
Jake Gutstein: Obviously, I take jobs seriously. I guess that you guys have seen some of the work product that came out of me and my team but I'm also humble. The fact that I'm an end of one in this experience, I mean, you guys have been through mentor madness at this point, and you know, like
Jake Gutstein: you put 10 of us in a room, and we have 25 different opinions. And so what I really care about what jobs really is a question of to me is systems in foundations for creativity and foundations for work. And so it doesn't necessarily need to be jobs, I happen to think is really good system. For myself, I'm gonna speak to it the utility of it, the utility potentially of other systems. I don't know necessarily where we want to take this
Jake Gutstein: but
Jake Gutstein: if anybody I mean, you would never, to the techstar's team, necessarily say something if you're skeptical of jobs as an approach. That's totally fine. But you have to be intellectually honest with yourself, and humbled to the fact that you need systems in place, that at least simulate
Jake Gutstein: what jobs are trying to do and what other areas of the business like how you can bring deep thought to other areas of the business. And so for me, that happens to be jobs. And I can go very deep into it. But like.
Jake Gutstein: if you look at the larger system at play, it's just like.
Jake Gutstein: look at what jobs is accomplishing. Like, why, yeah, do the jobs of jobs in a way, and like, understand that there are.
Jake Gutstein: there is utility to taking a slower approach to building your product and understanding why people might purchase. And this again happens to be good for me.
Jake Gutstein: So second thing that I would say is, I don't know who is meant to facilitate liana, Neil. Sophie. But I'm given that. I'm an out of one. I'm not gonna preface anything else. I say with it. I'm gonna speak fairly, authoritatively again. All the matters, I believe, is that you have a system. But for the sake of time I'm only gonna give this one caveat at the very beginning. But then I would ask anybody who's like moderating to pull pull me out. So if I'm ever going a little bit deeper speaking, and like what sounds like tongs, cause we were playing talking heads just now
Jake Gutstein: like pull me out of it and
Jake Gutstein: tell me like. Tell me to clarify. Tell me to go down a one rabbit hole versus another, because I'm not going to police myself. I'm just going to go stream of consciousness.
NSG (2): Well, I'll I'll also put it. I'll put it on the founders, too. Jade like like they need to steer you right? So I mean they're they're they're leaders.
NSG (2): You'll have companies that they run like they're adults. They can handle this.
Jake Gutstein: If I say something that's nonsense, it probably is nonsense. It's not you not getting it so just say like, call me out on it, and then we'll clarify or create contrast where necessary.
Jake Gutstein: Okay. So that being said, then
Jake Gutstein: what? What would be most helpful here? Where? Where do you want me to go?
Lilliana Robinson: I'd love if A at the top you could tell the story of kind of where you were coming into techstars, and then how, as you learn the Jtbd process and and iterated it. And I know you were familiar pre program as well. But, like W. How did those implications change your business like when you went through. First give some background, but then, knowing where they are at right now, when you were at that stage, how did you make the necessary changes based on your why, before the Y cause they've seen it, they've read it.
Lilliana Robinson: How did you make your business succeed? Based on that like kind of connect the dots between A and B, because that's exactly where everybody's going to be. The next couple of weeks.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, this is like a really difficult part of the process, right? So job jobs as a system when you're first introduced to it. It's not, you know. It's all arbitrarily one thing, but in truth, it's really 5 steps. So screening criteria and learning objectives, sourcing interviews based on those screening criteria, conducting the interview interviews, clustering and then actually building.
Jake Gutstein: and the way that, like my team, has formulated it to ourselves, you lose efficiency at each step in the process. So like I'm sure that some of you have, for example, started conducting your interviews, or did your interviews. And at the end, you're like, darn! We really should have focused in on this area. And that's more. A symptom of the screening criteria wasn't tight enough. It's not an indictment on the interviews, or like it took forever to source. And it's like, Okay, we lost so much time here. That's where we can get better. And I almost view it as a as a product so like
Jake Gutstein: the ability to do. Step one times step, 2 times, step 3. Ultimately each thing runs up below an efficiency of one, and you ultimately end up with the overall
Jake Gutstein: like ability to do your pro like process. So we came into techstars. We Liliana referred to it.
Jake Gutstein: We understood some of these problems. At an abstract level. We would speak to them on social media, and we went viral. As a result, we were pretty successful there, but like there's an expression like a leaky bucket like, if you return we like. We're like a pipe. We just like sending people literally through our thing, couldn't retain anybody and so needed to take a step back and program and essentially reevaluate where our product was at what we had been doing. Our critical mistake was in the screening criteria
Jake Gutstein: side of the process. So we were speaking to people who are using zest, who are paying for zest about their journey, about what they were hiring us for.
Jake Gutstein: In reality that was a really bad strategy, for where we were at, because in essence we were talking to people who had never successfully learned how to cook, and with an extremely high probability would fall out of our system
Jake Gutstein: about their experience successfully learning how to cook
Jake Gutstein: and so what we decided we needed to do is actually remove zest from the equation entirely and speak to people who had successfully learned how to cook without us. In particular. What we did is we looked at the pandemic people had way more time during the pandemic than they do right now. Oh.
Jake Gutstein: big picture!
Jake Gutstein: People had way more time during the pandemic than they do right now, and so we just talked to them. We talked to them about the forces, pushes, and polls that were acting on them in their in the context of their situation that got them to learn how to cook, but then, also through their story, came to observe, inefficiencies in their process, where we could cut out time most effectively. And that's what led to the why behind the why that
Jake Gutstein: I think that you guys were familiar with and ended up like studying in program
Jake Gutstein: And so
Jake Gutstein: I think that like, I've been
Jake Gutstein: to this.
Jake Gutstein: like, why not open up some forms? Okay, so
Jake Gutstein: this is just Wiki.
Jake Gutstein: we.
NSG (2): I'll do. Wait! Wait! You gotta slow down a second. You gotta show people when like, what are we even looking at like? Go back a few layers cause you. I know how thoughtful you are and how you've set up your systems. So when you're like, okay, let me show the team my jobs to be done. Spot in my company's like.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
NSG (2): She's freak.
NSG (2): What what just happened? Just.
Jake Gutstein: So there are 2 things. One is
Jake Gutstein: You can live life with a growth mindset or a fixed mindset. And typically high achieving. People have gotten to where they are. As a result of having a fixed mindset, there's a blue ribbon you're going to accomplish. Next thing you're going to accomplish the next thing that makes it really hard to build compounding successful systems within a company
Jake Gutstein: like essentially same with jobs like you have to acknowledge that you're gonna suck at first, and then over time. You're as you like, start to build something. It's just the best, worst version of what you're gonna have available. So like an example of that within our company, we have something called a wiki.
Jake Gutstein: If you do something more than twice, it gets its own article. Things live inside of this, and it essentially details how we work. So over time as we change, how we work, the wiki will evolve with that within that there's something that we have our call thought called our thought playbooks. This is essentially like Dang. I'm dealing with a really difficult problem. I wonder if I could throw a process at it to solve it.
Jake Gutstein: I think, like analogy, potentially helpful like, are you guys familiar with the band, the white stripes the. It's a alternative broadband. Yeah, you have Jack Meg White. Meg White is railed on in the music community for being a terrible bad drummer, Jack White, they're like, why is Jack White playing with her? He's a transcending guitar player. Why does he play with Meg White, who is just not complex as a drummer. But if you ask Jack White.
Jake Gutstein: his entire success is because Meg creates a structure that he has to function within, and that allows for his creativity to blossom, because it essentially creates constraints that then force him to work effectively.
Jake Gutstein: And that's really like what? Honestly, all of this stuff is
Jake Gutstein: But
Jake Gutstein: within that
Jake Gutstein: job job stuff.
Jake Gutstein: I
Jake Gutstein: okay.
NSG (2): So you created a home for your jobs to be done process as a company.
NSG (2): So now this is like, is this a resource that you guys like utilize at some cadence or interval? Or is it more ad hoc?
Jake Gutstein: At this point we use these things.
Jake Gutstein: It's almost like you can feel
Jake Gutstein: when you need to. So, for example.
Jake Gutstein: we will lean on jobs as a method of conducting customer research whenever there's a question of customer research, because, again, essentially, it comes down to again, this is how we filter information progress. It's like, what progress were people trying to make what we're forces acting on them? If we can diagram those forces, we'll be able to effectively
Jake Gutstein: diagnose a problem so like something similar recently that we did was we looked at churn. We just like people are leaving our product. Particularly bad churn, so like people who had spent call it. I think it was like 10 to 24 h in zest. It's like we should have you. Why are you? Why are you leaving us at this point?
Jake Gutstein: we like interviewed them. We
Jake Gutstein: heard their stories because seemingly a rational decision. We're hearing irrational stuff people would be like. I left because you don't have enough recipes.
Jake Gutstein: If you cooked one zest recipe a day
Jake Gutstein: for a year and a half, you would still have more zest recipes that you could cook. So it's like, obviously, we have more recipes. So what does it actually mean? You don't have enough recipes. It turns out we don't have the right recipe for you in a moment. So like I'm on Tiktok, and I see something I really want to cook, and I go to zest, and you don't have it. God! This app doesn't have anything. And I like, I'm not feeling anymore.
NSG (2): So to be clear about that, Jake. You were in a team meeting at some point, and you all are talking about churn.
NSG (2): and you're like, well, we need to. We need to actually go talk to somebody. Is that what happened? Or is it some other way that you all decided to do this?
Jake Gutstein: We're gonna yeah again, like this, it's gonna get deep. We basically have something that we call spikes. I, this is like, normal, like in development. You'll you will spike things. But the way that we spike things is by going and doing research over a set period of time.
Jake Gutstein: And so we have like, this is the these are the research projects that we currently have. Going on. You have. This is like April Dunford stuff, Neil. So it's like less jobs oriented. But
Jake Gutstein: duolingo for cocaine.
Jake Gutstein: super successful messaging for us. It's our what and how. So it makes sense. It's like, what are we? We are. We teach out a cook like, how do we do it? We do it like Duolingo. So like on a surface level, we have an understanding. Okay, this thing works. What does it actually mean to Summary? Who sees that and then decides? And when do they see it and decide like, Oh, yeah, this makes total sense for me and my contacts
Jake Gutstein: versus somebody that wouldn't. And so we actually like, keep track of all that stuff. And we'll run our research that way.
Jake Gutstein: on the
Jake Gutstein: demand side of things. So, Liliana, to your point, what we do is like, we essentially like, have you guys talked about the wall
Jake Gutstein: at all.
NSG (2): Not really.
Lilliana Robinson: Some people have read demands.
NSG (2): A little bit.
Lilliana Robinson: Sales.
Jake Gutstein: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Basically, it's like your it. This is the hard thing that, like, we have to constantly remind ourselves as well as like, your product doesn't
Jake Gutstein: matter to people like the fight that I got in with my sister yesterday matters to me. I, your product, doesn't matter to me like at best it is like something that prevent could potentially prevent me from losing my job. But like that's honestly typically an anxiety. It's like, How do I know that I won't get in trouble for adopting this, and this is like on the B 2 B side, but like
Jake Gutstein: it is
Jake Gutstein: humility to that that then drives in like a
Jake Gutstein: an understanding of the requirements needed to then end up building your product. And so
Jake Gutstein: you guys have done this part ideally as effectively as you can the first time you have to be okay with kind of stinking the first time of the year, but, like the best that you can to identify, demand side what is lately out there without your product in the world? And how are people solving the problem
Jake Gutstein: ideally? That then leads you to a why, behind the why, that's like this thing is ton of words. But the idea is like, there's a wall.
Jake Gutstein: and you have
Jake Gutstein: 2 choices. You can either look, you can either be on the demand side of the wall, understand? Link, demand in the market and look over the wall at the supply side. Understand the requirements dictated to you by your customers, behaviors that you now have to build towards, or you can be on the supply side of the market. Our camera is the best at in focus. Zoom, it has its shutter. Speed is XY, or Z, and look over at the demand side and be like it's good at solving those problems.
Jake Gutstein: And the difference between those things are subtle. But to me, ultimately, it's actually pretty big. It's the difference between the dog wagging the tail and the tail, wagging the dog
Jake Gutstein: and so.
NSG (2): Jake have with the point you just made is that, have you had any experience helping people
NSG (2): get over that? Challenge? Because I think there are people in this room right now on the zoom call among our founders, who are probably still struggling with conceptualizing
NSG (2): the prioritization of the demand side before the supply side.
Jake Gutstein: It's a
Jake Gutstein: yeah.
Jake Gutstein: So 1 one thing which I think that sounds like you got he got to be true of mine and humble with spirit. But I like, you know, like you have to actually be.
Jake Gutstein: To say that you're down to do it this way is different than actually conducting and behaving this way, and I will say a great way to waste a lot of time is if you refuse to truly accept that you're doing a demand side, and then, like, maintain a supply side attitude, because what it will do is it'll essentially leave you in the middle. You'll stand on the wall. You won't be based in anything, and then, like you'll struggle, no matter what
Jake Gutstein: the reality is like. A lot of companies can make it to like series a without a really tight understanding of demand side. It's not again the way that I would do it. But you see, that's honestly like Bob Andrew Glazer, like. They have made a ton of money coming into companies who can no longer grow and are going under really quickly. Who need to understand why their customers were buying from them. In the first place, and understand and come to understand that they're an entirely different product than they initially believed.
Jake Gutstein: That being said.
Jake Gutstein: it is really difficult. It is very easy to over intellectualize this at the stage that you're at. Where, like, if you have assuming the prerequisites been met. You've engaged with this very honestly. It's very difficult to then switch to features and benefits because those things are important. I've almost like, if you guys are familiar with avatar. This is like air bending. It's like you have, like financial modeling, which I view as fire bending. It's like church of finance stuff. This stuff is really important, like Avatar still have to fire bend.
Jake Gutstein: But like it's you got to know when to draw on these tools and how to use them. So, for example, in marketing
Jake Gutstein: we're building a cooking app makes a lot of sense for us to have good food content on our platform or on our pages. We have no food content on our platform and pages, because other people are building a lot of interest in our product when they're showing their. They're making people insecure. They scroll through videos of great food. And then you come upon our content. Our content sees on that moment, and it's like, why are you?
Jake Gutstein: Why are you looking at this and eating a chipotle burrito, and completely out of control over the way that you put food in your body, and that's kind of where our positioning ends up finding itself.
Jake Gutstein: you see, like
Jake Gutstein: this is kind of a weird thing, but like loneliness and getting people to hang out with you is a big part of who we are as a product. And so all of a sudden, our brand is a friend in the kitchen. It's a knowledgeable friend who helps you through this process. It's triggered in one way like it's triggered because I go from a heavily socialized environment to a less socialized environment. All of a sudden I'm I wasn't a dorm. I'm now living off campus. I wasn't college. I'm now living out of college. But
Jake Gutstein: the tone of the app itself
Jake Gutstein: comes to reflect that in a different way,
Jake Gutstein: cadence for shipping
Jake Gutstein: becomes very important, so that you.
Jake Gutstein: This is again with the perfectionistic thing. You just gotta get stuff out there now, and ruthless prioritization is going to be critical to the success of your company also finding capacity for what you guys can get out in a certain period of time.
Jake Gutstein: Is really really tough. So this is like, again, it dips into our stuff. I have kind of these systems for a lot of stuff. We leverage a system for building and shipping called shape up it comes from like, I don't know if you guys have talked about that
Jake Gutstein: as well. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: They will in book, club, in in like a month, or like a few weeks.
Jake Gutstein: Hell, yeah, I would
Jake Gutstein: it. You will read it, and you'll be like, this is great, and our team just isn't at the point where we can stand this up yet. That's going to be the first thought that comes into your head. Stand it up just like. Do it as soon as you can. Because it's going to be intentional.
NSG (2): You did it the hard way.
Jake Gutstein: Right? Right? Right? We try not to but then the reality is like, we're not shipping what
Jake Gutstein: matters? And and so you're you're gonna have. Essentially, you're gonna have. Everything is
Jake Gutstein: everything feels like the most exciting, most pressing problem to solve for your business. In the moment you go down these rabbit holes of passion, and the key is just
Jake Gutstein: creating checks to validate them and allow yourself to take a step back to actually prioritize where where you're at. So
Jake Gutstein: with shape up as a system, I mean, you guys will end up talking about it. But in essence it's like you have 2 control factories. When it comes to building you, you can you ship something?
Jake Gutstein: And you have time, like the amount of time that you dedicate to the project, and most people will hinge on shipping something. And so, even though, like things are set up in 1, 2, 4 weeks sprints. It's it's really built around getting this feature, this element of your product out
Jake Gutstein: shape of flips that on its head. It essentially says, I don't care what you put out, but you got to put out
Jake Gutstein: in a set period of time that addresses this problem, then it becomes, I mean, it's similar to these other processes. How well can you shape? How well can you put together pitches that will
Jake Gutstein: help to address the problem that you're going after and and allow you to get a get an actual usable product out. So basically, like what we had was a product that didn't work at all. We had a demand side understanding of why people might come to us, or why people might learn how to cook. And then we had a bunch of ideas, and
Jake Gutstein: I wrote like from there. It's like Rome's not built in a day. You just got to get to building to the degree that you can take a step back
Jake Gutstein: and understand? What's what are the options at your disposal? Create as much contrast as you can like. I would I I do this with my team. They used to hate it now, like everyone does now, literally like we're working with great game mechanics, Guy, and we're forcing him to do it. And I'm not even the one that recommended is like,
Jake Gutstein: we have an issue with activation. People aren't. People aren't coming on and and starting to do the thing that we want them to do so. I think that we should create a small mini experience at the beginning that teaches them something great that sounds like a really good idea. What are 2 to 3 other ways that you can solve this activation problem. And even if you end up coming back to the first
Jake Gutstein: way that you do it. It will be sharper, for you have for your having created the contrast
Jake Gutstein: in the different approaches that you can take.
Jake Gutstein: Does does that make sense? That's like a
Jake Gutstein: pretty important thing. For, like how we ultimately end up matching supply.
NSG (2): I mean, it makes sense to me. I'm more curious to see if other people.
NSG (2): a a other founders, want to chime in, and I think, Brian, through a question in the chat. Brian, do you want to say your question out loud to Jake.
Brian | Circle+: Yeah, sure. So Hi, Hi, Jake.
Brian | Circle+: pretty much. We are a data company, and we are going through the same probe. We are going through the same problem. Literally, we can have 200 sets of universities or investors. And when somebody comes onto a platform and searches for their specific university.
Brian | Circle+: they completely discredit everything else you have. So I'm just curious. I mean, I know it's not, you know,
Brian | Circle+: talking. It's not the one of the same thing. But I'm just curious. What insights did you gather from your jobs to be done? Interviews when you realize that, hey? People are coming and looking for a specific recipe on a platform. They don't find it. And because they don't find it, they leave
Brian | Circle+: what? How did you solve for that? Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: So this again is gonna like come down to.
Jake Gutstein: I mean, you guys have already seen the why behind the why. So you know, like
Jake Gutstein: again. There's not. There's not much mystery, mystery.
NSG (2): This is like, this is good. Yeah, I remember you showed me this, too.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. And this is like a reason. We're product is basically like, we know that 2 things are going to trigger people to leave. But they're not the reason that they leave us. It's a budgeting event. So like a major life event, happening or like us, violating trust. So we're the people that are gonna teach you how to cook.
Jake Gutstein: But it's like we screw up scaling up or down in a recipe. And it's like these guys are supposed to be the cooking people, but they can't even do this small thing like how can they? How can I trust them to do the big thing those cause people to turn, but they've already essentially decided that they were going to turn before that.
Jake Gutstein: So what happens is like, we essentially got 5 reasons.
Jake Gutstein: they complete all the levels in the app. So these guys have no nothing more to Co. Teach me. They're no longer anxious as a cook, so that we deris them, we fall going from 0 to one incompetence to competence. And then we actually came to define, like, what are we currently believe incompetence means to somebody what we believe competence means to somebody.
Jake Gutstein: we are hoping that with something like this, it's actually 0 to one, to 2, to 3 to 4. And if we can in a process, bring someone from 0 to one, then we can essentially copy and paste that process. Moving forward. We have. This was what we were talking about, which is essentially, I saw your stuff on Tiktok. I saw it on the food network, and you didn't have that. I'm tired of seeing the same finite set of recipes in the app. And then you're you're too rigid for me.
Jake Gutstein: So like you're forcing me to conform to a certain thing. And so what this allows me to do now is I I mean, yeah, like, I don't know if you're necessarily internalizing them. I I do. So. This is like, Oh, shoot! We have 5 blinking red lights and the planes currently in air.
Jake Gutstein: And so what we have to do is quickly prioritize. So to your point, I don't look at that pro the number 3 right now. And I, we're not actually, actively trying to solve it. We're trying to solve Number 5, and we're getting really focused. And how we want to solve Number 5. And from there we'll go to number one, and then from there we'll probably go 2 and then 3, and then 40, maybe 3, then 2, then 4 but it's like.
Jake Gutstein: once you have your your set. It's like what is the most pressing problem to solve. And I, we have.
Jake Gutstein: believe it or not, systems that we go about to solve what is like will prioritize, based on those things.
NSG (2): Jake.
Brian | Circle+: I think I guess so. Just just to be clear.
NSG (2): Like postponed. So, anyway, Brian.
Brian | Circle+: Yeah. So I just have to throw a comment. I'm very impressed that you've taken the Y before the Y and inverted it, and you've made a tool that is actually my glowing man like after that is, I'm just looking at that. I'm just thinking like, Oh, my gosh! That's a very good defense against Charn, you know. Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: It is.
NSG (2): Well, well.
Jake Gutstein: But push me, push me, though, because we can take it to. I wanna make sure that I get to the heart of your question as well.
NSG (2): Well, Jake, if I can help reinforce what's happening? Asked by Brian. Here.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
NSG (2): You. You
NSG (2): had this question. I remember talking to you called me. We had a meeting, and you were like
NSG (2): we're trying to figure out how to understand why people are turning and we don't know. And and maybe there's people in the room right now who have customers recently, and they're struggling to get them to talk to them, and there's probably struggling
NSG (2): even know the proper answer to that. So one thing I wanted to call out with what you just showed is it didn't happen overnight like you didn't just sit down with the team and then think of those 5 scenarios. There's a lot of work you had to do to figure out what those were right. So if you don't mind explaining the process that you went about.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
NSG (2): Actually understanding what
NSG (2): inform that would be helpful for everyone.
Jake Gutstein: Is a great point it has to do with things not necessarily being 0 sum. And we can also, I saw the question in the chat about the prioritization thing, because that really does come into play is basically, what I came to you deal with is that is not even necessarily the turn question. But basically, like, here are 10 different things that we can look at because the product isn't working the way that's meant to like. I'm not.
Jake Gutstein: We haven't broken even yet. The business is not
Jake Gutstein: we're still trying to get things to click. And so it's like, Wow, we have so many different questions that we can investigate.
Jake Gutstein: which one should we go after? And there are factors that go into that. How easy it is to get people on the phone is one and then the other is how important it is. And we very quickly recognize, like in that conversation, it's like, yeah. Bad churn is something that we really want to understand. At the same time, it's really hard to get turned customers on the phone. So it's like, okay, we're gonna set up a cadence. But I can't say similar to the Y 5. The why behind the Y that happened in 2 weeks.
Jake Gutstein: Because it was basically like week number one, have all the Conversations week number 2, cluster and write the article, and it was a lot of work in 2 weeks. This one was a much longer project cause. What we do is when somebody spends all that time in the app and then turns, we'll email them $30 for 30 min. I mean, I'm more than happy to follow up with, like what the format of
Jake Gutstein: we ended up sending out is but like we essentially just Beg turned users to get on the phone for money. And and it's way more valuable to me for me to pay $300 to find out the information that I just shared than it is for me to pocket $300, and I don't know. Eventually, like give it to
Jake Gutstein: amplitude or Meta, or likes not, you know, one of our vendors like.
Jake Gutstein: And so it's
Jake Gutstein: It was very important to essentially understand what the questions are that we want to evaluate. And then how many you saw there are like 3 active areas of research going on right now, now, that can get a little bit confusing from time to time. So you wanna really make sure that you keep it straight. But it's important because we're gonna find out the answer to the Duolingo for cooking thing much quicker than we'll find out the next turn research that we're trying to. We're trying to get to the bottom of.
Felipe - Gohaus: Jake! Hi! Hi! Everyone. Sorry.
Jeremy Banning: Go! Ahead, no.
Felipe - Gohaus: John Sorry.
Jake Gutstein: Hey, Jenny!
Felipe - Gohaus: Jake? Did you follow? Did you follow any framework for those questions? Do you have any recommendation on how to prepare and how to
Felipe - Gohaus: work inside internally on every single question that you do to the users.
Jake Gutstein: this is again where it's like, all right, we're gonna get deep. Please try to push me if it's like alright.
Jake Gutstein: No is unfortunately, fortunately or unfortunately, the answer, this is what I do.
Jake Gutstein: I do this to a piece of paper.
Jake Gutstein: and I essentially like, try to.
Jake Gutstein: We record every conversation already. Listen to the recordings, cause I'm not quite there yet. Different people will do this in different ways. So I've also seen people literally map the forces in real time. That to me is like way, too. They're way, too. That's like a level better than I could do. It's like really nuts to watch. But I have this essentially. This is just a progress, a timeline of progress.
Jake Gutstein: And so, as somebody tells their story, I'll mark on the timeline where we are, and I'll try to understand. And then when they say weird words, I'll essentially clarify.
Jake Gutstein: the key is understanding what you're going after, which is essentially
Jake Gutstein: what was the underlying progress that somebody was trying to make? When did they go from passive looking all the way through, deciding as long as you're within the ballpark of that. Then when do they use relativistic language? So seizing on relativistic language is a really easy way to like kind of level up your game, which is to say, I wanted to cook healthier food. It's like healthier than what and so it's like creating. And then I'll ask purposeful questions to create context. And this is like, kind of like a.
Jake Gutstein: and and then also contrast can help a lot. So it's like,
Jake Gutstein: I'll purposely get a very minor detail wrong, or like a couple of things wrong when I'm repeating back
Jake Gutstein: to somebody what they said, because that actually then forces them to be like? No, because, like no, that's not right. It was this thing because of this, and then they'll like expose more information than than before, I think, like again, the key key is under like staying on the timeline of progress.
Jeremy Banning: Jake, how did you get your team to align on that system? I love how you you implemented this job to be done as a framework, but it's like in the culture and fabric of your company now. So where now, when you have the conversation a lot easier, because you could tell when somebody's on their supply side thinking versus the mass. I thinking.
Jeremy Banning: How did you get
Jeremy Banning: what systems you put in place to align on? Hey, we're we're we're gonna focus on man side. Because we don't wanna be the guy selling just features for feature sake. We have a empathetic understanding of what the problem is, and we're gonna tackle it. How did you align on it?
Jake Gutstein: It's tough, I mean, so like this, it has to happen over time. Some people we're all in right away. Some people were more skeptical of it.
Jake Gutstein: ultimately, I'm building a cooking app.
Jake Gutstein: and if you put 10 people in a room and ask them to build a cooking app, they'll build 95% of the same product. And so our opportunity is going to be one along the margins. This is probably true, for most of the businesses here is like the actual
Jake Gutstein: business needs to be one along the margin. And what can you do to position yourself or think differently than other people?
Jake Gutstein: it is undeniable that it will. It's just
Jake Gutstein: it projects a different level of thinking. Once this is fully implemented and that becomes very clear. Externally.
Jake Gutstein: there's another kind of sub sector sub category as you guys get into pitch pitching where it's like, I need to be able to confidently and concisely express these ideas. This is not the forum where I'm doing that right. Like I, my essential understanding. And again, we can tighten this. If not, is, this is just like freaking knowledge. Don't don't just like rant but essentially like
Jake Gutstein: in external. You'll be like my CTO slower to accept this than, say, the head of our design.
Jake Gutstein: and what made him way more into it was he was saddened. A pitch, or like, yeah, as a pitch, and he's like, Oh, damn like we sound so unbelievably competent
Jake Gutstein: because once you have this.
Jake Gutstein: I'm gonna toss this up one more time. But like
Jake Gutstein: this
Jake Gutstein: is what you're gonna see like
Jake Gutstein: like this is the maximum that anyone ever will be exposed to.
Jake Gutstein: If that makes sense like, they're just gonna look at it and be like they have a good brand.
Jake Gutstein: And you know, like you can just like, sit there and laugh and be like, Yeah, we have a good brand. You know, it's just like the the you just need.
Jake Gutstein: You need something. So if there are other ideas to sharpen this, I would. I would advise doing it. Our version of shape up is like, it's like the Protestant version to like the base camp Catholic version, you know, like it's we don't actually like
Jake Gutstein: do it the exact same way that they did it. But we evolved over time to have it fit what we needed from it. And then we have honest, like mentors and brokers who keep us on track when things are a little bit. If it's cutting a corner versus, you know, customizing a process.
Jeremy Banning: Awesome. Thank you.
NSG (2): I think I I think one reference to validate. We just said Jake, is beyond just your CTO, acknowledging it during a pitch. But could you? Could you provide a few like maybe one other example of a context where you realize
NSG (2): that having this way of thinking about your business is beneficial like I'm thinking about. Maybe
NSG (2): that sequoia pitch that you had to come into town and give, or I I don't know if there's been other context where, like the I want the founders to understand like what they're hearing right now, like.
NSG (2): it's not just conjecture. And it's not just
NSG (2): like we're not over intellectualizing. This notion, like, I think, what you've just said is very important for people to internalize and understand.
Jake Gutstein: Well, I mean, like the reality is
Jake Gutstein: like
Jake Gutstein: Graham, and I will laugh. So we have, like, you know, a quarter 1 million of people who follow us on and engage with us in social media. And people hop on the phone with Graham. And they're like, Wow, I really want to do Tiktok Tiktok will be very important for our business. How should we do it? And there's 2 ways that the conversation goes. One is like this very open, intellectually open honest discussion on what it takes to set that up. What is right for you like? What are the mental benchmarks that you should go through to understand what channels for acquisition will work for you and your brand. The other is, make good content.
Jake Gutstein: you know, and like, I think, the version of that, for this is like.
Jake Gutstein: go get traction, and it's like, if you can get traction for your business. Now, this is the point of like so many people end up plateauing because there are people can who, you know, I worked at Meta, for I made it to Vp level. Meta, I go went, found my own business. I immediately closed a bunch of clients, and now I can't understand why they're continuing to pay me, and that's like I raised a series A and I completely tap out.
Jake Gutstein: and a lot of companies go under that way.
Jake Gutstein: for us.
Jake Gutstein: We're playing in a highly fragmented field where, like mine shares out a premium. This is ultimately going to be an advantage when we invert it, when we turn on our head or reach scale. But for now huge uphill. It's like a moat. It's why it's hard is also going to be. Why, it's better for us later on. And so the answer is we needed to build good product in an amount of time before we go out of business. And it's like, Okay, go do it. How are you gonna do it, and we needed a way to do it. And this is our way, right? And so.
Jake Gutstein: Neil, to your point, like, yes, like you ultimately end up sitting in rooms with people who have heard
Jake Gutstein: great pitches, and I happen to actually like when we pitch the Sequoia meeting, we pitch it with, like 6 or 7 other 6 companies we're seeing next to us. And they literally ranked the companies, and it was like everybody got an honorable mention other than us and one other team. We were like, we're the ones who could articulate what we were trying to solve. And so it ultimately shows. But what they're benchmarking behind is that traction? And how you get that traction, like.
Jake Gutstein: you know, like, are you trying to like diet and exercise? Or are you trying to just like stop drinking water for a week and a half. It's like what you'll lose weight both ways. But one way you're gonna be able to keep it off. And the other way, it's gonna be a lot harder once you start, like, you know, doing what you need to do to live. And so it's like I, it's it's a tough
Jake Gutstein: to me. It is hard to underestimate how important this type of
Jake Gutstein: approaches. But again, I cannot stress. You just happen to have put yourself in a position where you're around the masters of a certain way of thinking.
Jake Gutstein: And so it's like to me. It's like cool.
Jake Gutstein: Yes, I'm like, let's learn from learn from the people that know that. But if you want to like, go out and
Jake Gutstein: chart your own path and creating these systems for thought and how to work. That is also a viable alternative. It's just like
Jake Gutstein: you need something. It's like, you gotta have something, or else you will be
Jake Gutstein: building
Jake Gutstein: like on the skinnier teeth, trying to like close contracts, barely getting through. It's just gonna be a mess. And so it's like.
Jake Gutstein: I don't know. This is what you know creates order. You also got to be very comfortable with ambiguity, but that's a that's a different thing.
Jake Gutstein: Cool. I know. I saw.
NSG (2): Alright founders is a jump ball like you guys can talk to Jake. We were like, this time is yours.
Jake Gutstein: I, I saw one in the chat on a prioritization. I I can
Jake Gutstein: toss up the way that we think on that
Jake Gutstein: So basically, what we'll do is we create a set of
Jake Gutstein: like ideas. For like, here's everything that we could do right now. And then you end up whittling it down, you narrow it down. But like so, for example, in this situation, like, there are 4 things that we could do, I create like 4 little bubbles here. I then like map. So
Jake Gutstein: for option number one will option one directly lead. Will the work we do directly lead into option number 2, will it? And if it does, I draw an arrow going into from one into 2 same for one to 3, same for one to 4 that means like, when I'm done, 2 arrows go out of option. One
Jake Gutstein: I then do this like just to lead into one. If yes, draw that arrow to lead into 3, if yes, draw that arrow to lead into 4. No, no. Arrow going out from 2 into 4, there are 2 going out again. And I go around the circle, and I do this, and ultimately, you see, like at the very end, I have 3 arrows going in and 2 going out
Jake Gutstein: of this option. I think that yeah. And and that creates what we call like it says the natural priority of work? So it's basically like, what is the option that we will take right now? That will open up the most doors for us. And
Jake Gutstein: in this case.
Jake Gutstein: Option 4 leads out into 3 different things. This then goes into a tie, and so what we do at a tie like you can get like a little bit, you know, tricky, but as a rule of thumb, the way that we'll do it is option. 4 leads to the most options. Next we choose to do 3, because 3 leads to an equal number of options as these other ones. But there's fewer ways to actually get there. So 2. There's only 2 things going in but everything goes out, and then from here the same thing, then goes
Jake Gutstein: goes again. These ones are a tie so you could go to one or 1, 2 depending on your process.
Jake Gutstein: We do this for like literally large numbers of things, so like when there are more than 4 to 6 of these, it gets very confusing to do by
Jake Gutstein: Let's see.
Jake Gutstein: I gotta open up. Excel
Jake Gutstein: It gets very confusing with a like circle. And then you have, like a million different lines.
Jake Gutstein: And so I've essentially created a
Jake Gutstein: diagram here.
Jake Gutstein: I've created a little excel sheet that just does it for me at this point. And so this is literally the same thing. It's 2.
Jake Gutstein: It does 2 go into one, yes, 3 going to one, yes, to 4, going to one. Yes, and you just go down the column and you do it for everything, and it creates a natural priority of work that is created down here and then clarified over here.
Jake Gutstein: And so this is how we like will ruthly, ruthlessly, we say ruthlessly prioritize right? And what it also lets you do is like this was we did for the game. This is like real inside baseball. This is one that we just used, and we had too much work. And so there's this expression at Base Camp, which
Jake Gutstein: I forget who brought it up. Jeremy, Jeremy was saying about
Jake Gutstein: how to get team buy in. I don't have team buy in on this phrase, but I use it anyway, because I like the phrase, and that's it's better to create a kick ass half than a half ass toll and it's like we had to cut
Jake Gutstein: half the stuff on this list, because it's better to ship
Jake Gutstein: project done to our degree right in our set period of time than it is to either stretch the amount of time. We don't compromise on the timeline or ship, you know. Some like mediocre done feature for all this stuff.
Mircea Gogoncea: I have a question about this.
Jake Gutstein: What's happening? Man.
Mircea Gogoncea: So what does leading into mean in this context? You say, one leads into 2 or 3 leads into 4. Can you give us example, maybe with the yeah, with the spreadsheet, or something like that.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So here are 8 different things that we can do for our game. It's a little bit deep to like. This is one of those things where I don't a, it's gonna be hard for you know, the level of context that you guys need for this to make any sense whatsoever. So I don't want to go on, Rance, about what I'm working on, but if it's just I'll keep it high level and then be like, it still doesn't make sense. And then I'll go lower level. Basically, like we could design onboarding and user placement
Jake Gutstein: for the app. We could create a new menu, we could create a new discover page, but create better recipe selection. Redo our paywall, do 2 different features that impact our diary or a journal or do side quest. So there's a main quest. That's the game and their main. There's a main quest of the game, and then there are side quests that you could do
Jake Gutstein: and what we looked at, for example, the clear winner here was the just
Jake Gutstein: this discover page which had 5 things going out of it, 3 things going into it. And the reason that you would do discover, for example, before onboarding is that it probably makes sense that you need to do.
Jake Gutstein: You have to know what you're onboarding people into. And so like, this is the type of stuff
Jake Gutstein: that that example is very obvious. But, there, there will always, without Bill, be like one or 2 things that are in different spots than you would actually think that they were, because it's just too hard, at least for me personally to like, hold all these different permutations in my head of like what we could do in what order. And so then, passion naturally takes over. I like this idea more than that idea. And this is to de-risk
Jake Gutstein: that passion. It's not to negate it again. These are just different styles, but I certainly will index here, so that I can then bring it to my team, and then they're like, but we need this. And it's like, Yeah, well, that diary actually isn't really going to move the needle for us. We need to do all this, or it might. It might be a great idea. But we have to do this other stuff to make it make any sense, or else we're gonna have to redo it, anyway.
Jake Gutstein: Appreciated that help.
Lilliana Robinson: I think we'll just jump to Ally. Maybe Mitch is not on.
Alejandra Guillen: Thank you. Jacob Molly. Yeah. It.
Mircea Gogoncea: Might have interrupted. But I'm I'm here.
Lilliana Robinson: Did that help Mitch.
Mircea Gogoncea: Yes, okay. So I didn't hear that question. If that's what the question was at the end, I see. So it's it's like you need feature. A in order to build feature. B. That's what means that feature? A leads to feature. BI understand.
Jake Gutstein: Correct. Sometimes it will be a little bit more gray than that. But yes.
Jake Gutstein: you'll see like when you actually do it. It's like, darn this like kind of does it? And then you have to like, decide how you're gonna run the process that time. So it's not it's not entirely binary.
Jake Gutstein: Ally! I think.
Alejandra Guillen: Yeah, mine was a follow up similar to Mircha. I I was gonna ask, is it always a matter of work flow? Or is it more infrastructure? Like, you know, I can't build B without A or you know I can build B. It will be more effective with A and with C. And that's where the grace start coming in.
Jake Gutstein: I tend to be partial to the latter, and I'll show. Why is you can actually have it going both ways.
Jake Gutstein: It's not entirely dependent. This is not a good, it's not an exercise of dependencies, but rather increased or better optimized like workflow, because the reality is we're 2 resource, constrained to do one and 2 at the same time.
Sophie Davis: Cool. I'll jump in.
Sophie Davis: So hey, Jake, thanks for being here. This is really really fun.
Jake Gutstein: Me, too. I'm so blessed.
Sophie Davis: It's it's amazing. So
Sophie Davis: I'm curious.
Sophie Davis: It's clear that you have a number of idea in that instance. With the excel sheet you had a number of ideas that you wanted to work on number of features that you wanted to implement.
Sophie Davis: they haven't read shape up yet, but essentially, at the end of Shapeup talks about this this thing called the bedding table and maybe, Jake, you can talk a little bit about that. But I'm curious how this work, quantitatively
Sophie Davis: well, quantitative approach to making feature beds.
Jake Gutstein: This is my tutorial.
Sophie Davis: Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Sword
Jake Gutstein: at the bedding table.
Jake Gutstein: It's like I.
Jake Gutstein: Everybody comes prepared with
Jake Gutstein: we, me and my team, like we all will say we fight all the time.
Jake Gutstein: At our best. We fight about the right things.
Jake Gutstein: and we've actually like
Jake Gutstein: this is like where it's like, Okay, he's he's obviously like kind of wired is a little bit crazy. But he's like, Yeah, no, he's actually pretty crazy is like, this is how we debate, you know. And so like, literally like, we'll have like we had to get better at this, because, like sometime, it's very easy in these highly charged emotional situations where people are super into it to
Jake Gutstein: essentially have ego
Jake Gutstein: leak in. And it's like, okay, how can we check that
Jake Gutstein: in our conversations? The betting table is like full body contact
Jake Gutstein: founding a company like it's just
Jake Gutstein: no, no holds barred. And so everybody comes with essentially their ideas of what we believe that we should work on. This is my, this is what I bring to it, because we'll have times. We just had betting day last week.
Jake Gutstein: and it was honestly like it was like a pass through. It was like, we actually kind of knew the work that we needed to get done over the course of the next 6 weeks. We already had it relatively shaped. There were fewer cards on the table.
Jake Gutstein: Easy. We also have, like crazy, aggressive like it could be this. It could be that it could be this one like you're. I think it should be this one like betting days, and that this is where it helps for me to just come and be like, well, guys, I think the Z. What I will say is, I circulated to my team like 24 h in advance. So like I'm not coming and being like, Oh, it's interesting that you think that this is the priority, because bam, and like trying to surprise like, there are no surprises here. But it's like, I just
Jake Gutstein: want to.
Jake Gutstein: You know, it's really hard. They're like 8. We've had like 20 ideas
Jake Gutstein: fully shaped.
Jake Gutstein: That's where like framing comes into play, too. When you guys reach shape up.
Jake Gutstein: I extremely like I could not recommend more highly, particularly for building companies at our stage to frame
Jake Gutstein: ideas before you shape them. It's like a new part of the process that Ryan is like now writing into a book, I think, but like is
Jake Gutstein: utmost importance for us.
Jake Gutstein: Take.
Sophie Davis: Can you elaborate on what framing is just? Briefly.
Jake Gutstein: so basically, like, I know that Ryan and Bob. But maybe maybe just Ryan is currently working on like a new shape up. That's not just kind of base camp specific. What we do is essentially there is shaping the idea which is essentially creating an idea of what a solution might look like within the current context of the system. Before that we do something called framing framing is
Jake Gutstein: validating a business case to work on the solution right now.
Jake Gutstein: And it essentially will table or kill ideas in the crib.
Jake Gutstein: To make sure that
Jake Gutstein: they don't end up getting too far. So the way that we do that this is our template for shaping. We have like a bunch of questions that you'll answer on a pitch. You guys will like, get into this when you do the shape of process before you ever do it, though, you gotta talk about the opportunity problem that you're solving. For who? When do they feel it? What data research do we have to back it up in the plainest English? What problem are you solving? After you do that it's the outcome. How will the users life be different? This is again like
Jake Gutstein: Jeremy you were talking about how to make sure that you have collective buy-in. It needs to infect your company culture. So this is not outcome. What kpis will be driven by the result of this experiment. It's
Jake Gutstein: what is changing the user's life.
Jake Gutstein: What in their story is different now, and that's a demand side question versus the supply side oriented ones. And then you have prioritization so like which users are effective, how valuable are they to the company versus other ones? Contrast it with it! Whatever else we could do isn't worth our time right now. And this will be like, okay, this is a really cause. There's always passion. It's always like Dang. This is a really good idea like I can give you a a
Jake Gutstein: like cooking cooking tracker for zest and beyond. I love this idea. And Julie, my one of my founding team members loves this idea. This idea is not clearing framing. Julie doesn't know yet, but this idea is not getting past framing. I like, I just I'm again as somebody that's passionate about it know that it's just.
Jake Gutstein: I've done the mental math, and we'll put it. I'll be intellectually honest, and I'll do the process with it, but I just can't see a world where we have other things going on. That this is the right time to deal with shaping a solution, and that allows you then to shape more honestly cause you can shape more holistically. You can think about it. It it it almost like,
Jake Gutstein: forces your attention to the right
Jake Gutstein: areas of the problem in the right moment.
NSG (2): So so, Jake, just quickly as as I'm seeing you like, kind of show all these different processes that you have written out. I've what I've noticed about you is that whenever there's something that comes up at the company that's like a struggling moment, you tend to default, to designing a system
NSG (2): to prevent that from happening again, where you you'll come up with some kind of documentation process, whereas, like, I think a lot of folks right now might just and start a plan. We just kinda like wing it and kinda figure it out, kinda do our best to figure out how to prioritize something or do our best to resolve a disagreement or debate with the team member. So what brings you over the edge by default to always document it, put a system in place. You don't have to repeat yourself.
Jake Gutstein: Irresidivism so like, if the problem comes up
Jake Gutstein: in our, we say 2 times what that might mean is like 4 times, though if it continues to arise, and it's like Dang. This is that thing again, and it can manifest very differently. We'll build a sit, we'll like, put something in place. And again, it doesn't have to be the end of the world. It's just like, let's put documentation on this. So next time I don't need to start from square 0 cause. Ultimately, like these, the success of these systems compound on one another. So I I move a little bit slower in the moment to write
Jake Gutstein: 4 sentences on how like 4 bullet points on how we debate, for example, but it saves me so much time next time, and I can give an example of one that's come up relatively recently.
Jake Gutstein: communication in terms of
Jake Gutstein: do I need to give you progress on an idea that is fully in my lane, but a concern that you brought to me.
Jake Gutstein: It came up on culinary. I have a recipe recommendation that I like love.
Jake Gutstein: and I would give it to Julie and not who's our head of culinary? Nothing would ever happen with it. And it's like, is it not happening because she doesn't like it, is it not happening? Because she forgot about it is not? And it's very uncomfortable, because, like
Jake Gutstein: like, this is a blood sport. And we're like charging for it. And this is my team, and I can't be walking behind me when I'm trying to like make progress towards our ultimate goal.
Jake Gutstein: Another one was bugs
Jake Gutstein: for Omar. These are 2 completely, seemingly separate issues, but it ran into the same thing. Hey, we're reporting a bug. Nothing comes back. Turns out they're all getting fixed. But I don't know. I don't know if he's building something else if it's getting lost like literally had no process around that. And so it's like, Oh, there are 2 types of like points of feedback, random points of feedback on team. There's a one which is basically like, I came across this recipe on Tiktok.
Jake Gutstein: I just want I I'd be remiss if I didn't share this with you. But I never need to hear about it like I'm just like, I know that I would like to share with you. And then there's a 2 which is like.
Jake Gutstein: Hey, this is actually something that I saw that was stressing me out quite a bit. Can you update me? And we have like checking it like points to update. Just like, let me know when it's taken care of, and the person knows it, and I know it. And like, now, you know, it's much easier to avoid that type of problem, but like it's not like.
Jake Gutstein: Oh, I don't know what's happening with the. It takes several times of this Julie thing happening. And then several times of the bug thing happening. And then a couple other stuff. And it's like, this is a system problem
Jake Gutstein: like this is our team. I don't like blame the people. It's generally it's a failure on our like my part, right to like, make sure that people are set up
Jake Gutstein: best to succeed. And so
Jake Gutstein: yeah, it's anything that I can see ultimately leaned to like multiplicative returns. It's like, okay, yeah, like, we should put this in place because we'll move faster. It's like, I no longer have to be worried about this.
Jake Gutstein: All takes up space. And I, I just yeah, like, I just, I'm not. I'm not good enough, you know, like I'm not smart enough to like. Have it all here and compartmentalize fully and just like March away. I just like, need I? I set it and forget it. I don't think about things. I I just have it set up so that, like I can be present like, it's hard enough to be present. So
Jake Gutstein: it's like, Yeah.
NSG (2): Thank you, Jake, and I'll just say that there's attributes like that, and how you're thinking about that, that I think signal to other people, mainly investors, but also others to want to support you, because there, there.
NSG (2): they're fascinated by a founder who can think about putting systems in place for scale at this early stage.
NSG (2): So those are some indicators that are more intangible and less like objective traction, based or metric based decision making
NSG (2): that we tend to evaluate as investors at this phase. So I just wanted to call that out for everybody to hear.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, evidently attention to detail matters when you're asking for a 7 figure check.
NSG (2): Ali. I think you had a question.
Alejandra Guillen: Yes, thank you. So what you showed being disciplined with all these systems and following the process, is a lot of work, and and you have so many ideas to frame, to shape, and and so on. How do you assign ownership within the team, particularly when it's very small? And how do you avoid bias? If there's only one owner gathering the data and framing something.
Alejandra Guillen: that you, you know, I mean Jtbd, kind of like
Alejandra Guillen: eliminate the the the bias. But if you only have one person, you know that it's one interpretation to build all that framing and all that shaping.
Jake Gutstein: No, yeah. So it's a great question. There needs to be
Jake Gutstein: again, like, this is like I I you know, an interesting part of this founding journey for me has been the seeds of a world view that feel like they begin to form right. So I don't necessarily like one very important thing. It seems like a lot of work to maintain these systems. I have no ego attached to these systems like if they stop working, it's because they're breaking, and I gotta find out why they're breaking and just like
Jake Gutstein: fix it right? So it's like I. They're actually designed in certain ways to to collapse. And once they do like, that's when we adjust this. It's not working for us anymore. It should like at their best when it's a rupture repair cycle with where, like your relationship is with the company, it's like when things break. You just figure out why they're breaking, but it should at its best feel like handing glove like this is how it should be working.
Jake Gutstein: we use a system for prioritization or for a ownership called ars. It stands for areas of responsibility. I believe Apple is the one that started it. But the way that it works is
Jake Gutstein: at the highest level of company ownership. There's a directly responsible individual for everything. You then can have unlimited backups. But the buck stops with this person.
Jake Gutstein: huge. This is again like you start to like once the system is stand up. Other stuff might get easier. So like a huge blow fights about something not getting done is not because you're stupid and lazy and weren't thinking about it. It's because the Aors weren't worked out right literally without fail, like it's like when they're right. Then it's like
Jake Gutstein: you're the Aor. You were wrong.
Jake Gutstein: Yes, I was the Aor. I I am responsible for that, I and I and it fell through, or like I was. It was clearly delegated enough that someone knew that they were supposed to do it.
Jake Gutstein: So you'll see like this is, they stay relatively
Jake Gutstein: high level
Jake Gutstein: for us in this set. They go like a little bit so like database admin is on right. That's my CTO here. We have different, you know, at this point it's fairly robust, but it didn't start this way. You add them over time as things break. You try your best at first to set it up, and what I do is every
Jake Gutstein: I can.
Jake Gutstein: I can check for an actual number here, cause I know it's next week on Tuesday every
Jake Gutstein: 2 months
Jake Gutstein: we have a designated time to go in and remove things that are no longer relevant. And then we also will
Jake Gutstein: add throughout. So like in that rupture moment, like in a when a Dr. Fails like, we just look here, and we tend to just add it.
Jake Gutstein: There's like companies change.
Jake Gutstein: So then, within that
Jake Gutstein: for pitching. And we actually detail like again, like, I'm not, I'm not lying like this is just. It's a way that works for us. But like we have the breakdown of like how shape up works for our company here. We've essentially rewritten the book. But it's like kind of like shorter. Just for us.
Jake Gutstein: pitch, composition roles. Each pitch has a lead in support squad. There's only allowed one lead, and they're directly responsible for bringing the pitch from start to finish. Support squad is there to either lead or help help the lead out as needed this should be ironed out before the cards move to drafts, which is when we actually shape this stuff out. Where's framing here? Okay. So backup. I don't even need to re read it up from this. But essentially like the backup on framing is ideally, if there is a
Jake Gutstein: product level expertise required. So like, if there's technical expertise, if there's acquisition based, act like, I should not be creating acquisition strategy for Meta, with my other co-founder who does nothing on those platforms. I should be doing it with the person who's responsible.
Jake Gutstein: If that doesn't exist, I want to do it. Second order priority is with someone who vehemently opposes the idea.
Jake Gutstein: Again, like we have. Why, we debate this is a big problem for us is like people say, No, I don't like it like things like that bad debate. Yeah, I don't like it, because no, because create the contrast. And then, like, you guys can actually litigate or litigate the problem together. Third order, priority is just anybody on the team. So it's basically like, Do I need a technical person on this call. Does anybody object to this to their core? Do they really not like it? And then, if there's none of those, then we meet with just like somebody else. Tell
Jake Gutstein: shape this thing out. So again for cooking tracker. Me, Julie, we happen to really like it. It's normally 2. So it's normally a lead, and then a support squad. That's just because, like we're a Bootstrap team but sav
Jake Gutstein: is, I'm not. I don't like this idea at all. And so because of that, like, we have
Jake Gutstein: a framing session set up with 3 of us. Julie's responsible for getting on the calendar. Julie's responsible for making sure everybody's there. Julie's responsible for making sure that everybody has the right information in the right amount of time, cause she's the lead. She's the Dr. And once you have like kind of that setup, you don't even have to think about it. It comes auto pilot.
Mircea Gogoncea: Was one of your areas of responsibility to put up the Aor system in place at the very beginning.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. So yeah. And I loved it. So you don't even understand. But this this is great, right? Cause money where my mouth is like, Okay, cool. Do they actually like, do this thing? And it's like, alright.
Jake Gutstein: yeah, maintain. Look right down here, right above development, the line, right above development.
Mircea Gogoncea: That's amazing. I missed that difference.
Jake Gutstein: Right? So it's like we're we do it like, I'm not just like I didn't prepare. Neil didn't like email me to prepare things for this call, we actually, we actually have it
Jake Gutstein: cool. Oh, I can.
Nelson Mitchell: Jump in
Jake Gutstein: But Nelson.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah. So you've talked a lot about product prioritization. I I like the Aor thing because I think that that's
Nelson Mitchell: an interesting way to divide up responsibility and keep people honest. So that's that's cool.
Nelson Mitchell: I'm curious about your approach to management and communication. Right? So
Nelson Mitchell: I'm not sure how big your company is. So if you could give us a a idea of like the scale that you're working with, and then describe the systems or the approaches you're using for number One. Situational awareness like, you're the CEO, you gotta know what's going on. Number 2.
Nelson Mitchell: one of the things I ran into my last company was decision making like, it took a long time to make decisions. It took a long time to make sure that people were on board with decisions. So if you could talk a little bit about
Nelson Mitchell: how you know what's going on, and then number 2, like how decisions get made, implemented, tracked, and closed out. I'd love to learn more about that.
Jake Gutstein: I may.
Jake Gutstein: I'm gonna hit the system
Jake Gutstein: systems that come to mind
Jake Gutstein: if I miss anything, though, do let me know there's a like level of Eq responsible. We just made this thing. So I actually don't know. This is like a newer addition to the wiki. But like how people give and receive feedback. I have 6 core team members, plus like
Jake Gutstein: a couple of contractors. But like we, we're really trying to build a lean like the contractors are like a subject matter, expert and game mechanic design, you know, who's referred to us by like multiple parties. And like.
Jake Gutstein: is.
Jake Gutstein: we're pretty tight in our understanding there.
Jake Gutstein: I wanted just me, because, there's gonna be a lot that we do that I may miss, and I apologize in advance. If I do, cause I just not. I don't have a itemized list for situational aware, situational awareness. I batch what I want to talk to people about, and I have weekly one on ones. I recently started recording these one on ones. Essentially, the format is as follows, agenda items that I want to cover
Jake Gutstein: things that the person can do to improve in their role
Jake Gutstein: things that I can do to better support them in their role, and how what I can be doing to better improve in my role.
Jake Gutstein: And it's meant to be an open forum one on one. We'll talk about this stuff.
Jake Gutstein: I prefer to batch things just because I hate one off request. But that's like a personal
Jake Gutstein: thing. We then do. We call it a retro. It's not really a retro. We have an hour and a half meeting every week, the core 6 of us. We're probably gonna cap it at 6 as we continue to grow the company, and we'll create smaller versions of this meeting. But it's essentially a no holds barred discussion, a showcase of the last week of work, plus like
Jake Gutstein: they're. It's very emotional, emotionally charged. So things that are ragging on people that they need to bring up
Jake Gutstein: if you want to check in on what's going on, or the progress being made on a certain card?
Jake Gutstein: there is a tremendous amount of trust built into our company. And so there are 2 things that
Jake Gutstein: we are like extremely, extremely strict on
Jake Gutstein: one is, if I say verbal agreements, the the importance of verbal agreements.
Jake Gutstein: If I say I'm going to get something done, I'm going to go get something done. And I'm going to get it done in the set period of time that I say that I'm going to get done, and if not, I'm going to tell you as far in advance
Jake Gutstein: as possible. So the issue isn't like. So, for example, we have a mid cycle check in. We scope work for 6 weeks like I mentioned through shape up. We'll check in mid cycle. But even before, like we check in throughout the course of the week, hey, I, as I've been getting this under my belt, I think we're gonna need to make trade offs. We're gonna have to like, get rid of this stuff and get this in. So it doesn't come to shift data. And it's like, where is this one thing that we are so excited about? It's like there are no real surprises because there are natural moments check in along the way.
Jake Gutstein: But also like I don't need to, you know.
Jake Gutstein: like I'm not trying to give out. Hall passes like, I just want you to go do what you need to do, and I want natural moments for us to like. Have this type of
Jake Gutstein: this type of communicative cadence. The other is a respect and value for people's time. And so, like, we show up and start meetings like on the dot. And you know it's funny, is I came to entrepreneurship through Neil. I found my first company coming out of his class at at school, and so, like his first day, the first thing he ever told us was
Jake Gutstein: 5 min early is on time on time is late.
Jake Gutstein: And that's that's literally our company, because it's like you start a meeting. I have a meeting with 4 people. I show up 5 min late.
Jake Gutstein: I'm showing up 5 min late. I've wasted 5 min of my time. But I've wasted 15 min of their time because there are 3 people who had to wait 5 min. And to me that's unacceptable like that's a lack of respect.
Jake Gutstein: So the this type of stuff is, believe it or not, codified.
Jake Gutstein: You're really making me. Now, I'm like, I I feel like like one of those when the FBI raids my house. I'm gonna like, have all all the diagrams like my manifestos up. I didn't. Kinda I don't. You don't think about it ultimately, but, like
Jake Gutstein: bizarre.
Lilliana Robinson: Jake.
Jake Gutstein: We. We have a team charter and the team charter is adhere to. And so, like you can literally see, I I would click into it, require like bouncing around the share we can if we want to. But scoping work is mentioned. Accountability work for the team present and participate. That's like
Jake Gutstein: I hate.
Jake Gutstein: I'm very. I hate wasting time.
Jake Gutstein: and so like my thing is like I like, if if you're there and don't need to be there. Don't be there like I don't care. But just don't be there, you know, like it versus like, if you're it's just like it's a waste for everybody. And so figuring out that whole thing.
Jake Gutstein: The last thing I would say here on decision-making is trust in the directly responsible individual to be accountable to the decisions that they're making.
Jake Gutstein: this is something that like full transparency, like cofounder therapy set, you know, game off founders therapy session for a minute. I I've been dealing with recently because I'm empowering the product. Decisions on my team and decisions are sometimes made that I wouldn't have made myself.
Jake Gutstein: but
Jake Gutstein: I have to check that and understand like again, if we're aligned in process, and if we're engaging in this wholeheartedly.
Jake Gutstein: if I think their process was good again, but I wouldn't agree with like who am I that say that what they came up with was bad, and what I came up with is good, if I can't necessarily articulate it, and also how much more progress will we able to make, because I was able to trust this group to come up with something. In the meantime.
Jake Gutstein: this compounds over time, though, I will say, and so like ars need to be really, really tight like, I don't want my marketing person thinking about our finance, our finance. I don't want him managing our financial model he needs to be. He is deeply in our financial model. But like, I'm the one that's going in and like
Jake Gutstein: changing that stuff or driving major changes to our spending plan alongside him. And
Jake Gutstein: that's important to me. He doesn't want me going into our ad manager and like messing around with what we have going on over there. And so yeah, that it's
Jake Gutstein: it. It's certainly, you know. It's a it's a growth path. But you just kind of like, put these natural natural things in place to to deal with it.
Nelson Mitchell: Super helpful thanks.
Jake Gutstein: For sure.
Sophie Davis: Valeria.
Valeria Brenner: Okay, yeah, I was gonna ask. So
Valeria Brenner: Max and I like, we're just 2 person team right now, we're like in the starting phases of trying to figure out and make sure that all of our core values are aligned. But we haven't really started jotting it out into like detailed pages like this, like I've just begun experimenting like with our interns, having them document processes like you said. If it happens more than twice, there should be a guideline for it like, at what point did you start doing this and like.
Valeria Brenner: was that a good time to start doing it? Or do you wish you had started it earlier. If so like. How do you figure out when to dedicate that time to it, and like what? To prioritize.
Valeria Brenner: which I guess the prioritization, like table or game, might be the first step in this process.
Jake Gutstein: Yes.
Jake Gutstein: to the last one
Jake Gutstein: like.
Jake Gutstein: I think
Jake Gutstein: if you were forced to move to a foreign country where you can't, we know nothing of anything there. Like almost like a alien planet.
Jake Gutstein: there will naturally be foundational things that you would take care of before
Jake Gutstein: others.
Jake Gutstein: You'll probably figure out how to eat before you start learning the language. But quickly, after these basic
Jake Gutstein: areas are taken care of, you're going to learn ways to actually live in the place that you are now situated.
Jake Gutstein: I think it's very easy in this journey to
Jake Gutstein: not necessarily take the slowly compounding steps, because it doesn't feel like the right time. I think at this point you guys are in techstars like you're this far through program.
Jake Gutstein: To not stand these up is a disservice to have to do it all at once is daunting and, like spoiler, alert also, will not like none of it will be done right right away, because what I'm showing you is gonna change from our end, like, it's just like to have something in place. So one is, I'm assuming that everyone is filed correctly. That's like gonna be without saying. But like from a legal compliance standpoint, make sure that, like you're an actual company that's incorporated and like stuff like that like you don't wanna like.
Jake Gutstein: It's just like with the fun rate like, don't be like, you know, we're a Wyoming escorp, and it's like what like, why like don't do that. And then the other side of it, though, is like that team charter, for example, I think that was the first thing that we did is like slowly starting to stack this stuff.
Jake Gutstein: recommending a book.
Jake Gutstein: This book takes the cake for the ratio of worst title to most tactically useful information. A great CEO within
Jake Gutstein: is in indispensable in terms of like ars, are detailed in there, and like essentially what great CEO within did is like. Here are a bunch of ideas for what an AR could be. I tried a bunch of them out. Some of them didn't like. Some of them were complete gibberish nonsense for what our company is. We had our 2 month check in, and so by the third 2 month check in. We like pruned it. And this is also a good example, Jeremy, for, like the buy in thing, is like id member who is like these ars are ridiculous.
Jake Gutstein: and then like by the third cycle of doing them. It was like, these are ridiculous, and it's like, Why are they ridiculous? Because you never do that thing.
Jake Gutstein: And it's like, Okay, let's get rid of it. And then it's like, and I never do this thing. And it's like, Okay, let's get rid of that one. And then it was like, and I also do this thing. And it's like, Okay, now that's there. And it's like, Oh, dang! This is highly representative of how we work. And now it's like, literally, it will function that way. And so it's like
Jake Gutstein: all of
Jake Gutstein: all of it like, this is just an incredibly frustrating journey in compounding
Jake Gutstein: compounded growth, in systems, in like things that you don't think will pay off and do in ways that you might not necessarily recognize, I would say, like
Jake Gutstein: prioritize.
Jake Gutstein: create a timeline, for when you want to get stuff done, make sure that gets done in a long in accordance with the other things that you have to work on. So you don't need to like again. The temptation is when you don't have a lot of this stuff set up. It's like I gotta get it done by Monday, because if I don't get it done, then I can't move on to the next thing. And it's like, Well.
Jake Gutstein: slow down like there's actually like a lot of time. And you gotta you. You gotta make sure you're working on the right thing in the right order.
Valeria Brenner: I have like a quick follow up to that. So first of all, that was awesome. Thank you. Second of all I was gonna ask, is it possible, like obviously not share the content of your notion? But like the framework that you've used and built cause like that's the platform we're using. And like that, I think the comments set it best like, that's the most like, oh, like genius organization I've seen on notion yet. And so, yeah, would that be possible?
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, but you're not gonna like the answer. I'm pretty sure there's a pre templated Wiki format
Jake Gutstein: on notion. If you just like do the the Wiki template it will set up. It'll set you up like that. And what we did is we have like a little archive, and it'll say the notion references or something at the bottom. And that's just like at the bottom of the page, and we've just put our thing on top of it.
Jake Gutstein: That's it.
NSG (2): Yeah. And then, to be clear, it's less about the the template. It's more about the mental
NSG (2): muscles that get developed. Even think to go into document some of these things.
Jake Gutstein: And it's muscle is a good word again, cause it's like.
Jake Gutstein: you know, it's hard, and it's hard to get into working out when you're like tiny and
Jake Gutstein: gawky and stringy, and but like.
Jake Gutstein: let this be like a thing that you are actually committed to building muscle in versus kind of the one off
Jake Gutstein: habits. It's just like.
Jake Gutstein: yeah, I don't know. It's a fairly good way to derive the the experience of building this. You know, it's at least we had an approach.
Jake Gutstein: They can't say we didn't have an approach.
Jake Gutstein: What's up, Ryan?
NSG (2): So y'all got they got 11 min left. So, good man, why, you can.
Brian | Circle+: Yeah. So just I just wanna refer hope. I think it was early for us. And where you've given some concept of the answers to it, and many at times
Brian | Circle+: system, dilution does happen sometimes. It's just not that the system is broken, but system dilution basically have a situation whereby steps somewhat followed in the guidance that they were created, initially created, or
Brian | Circle+: there is pressure from external factor that really completely pushes you to just jump a step or skip the process. You have a way to ensure you train system dilution, cause. You know, when you're creating most of the systems, there's a lot of inspiration in the room. There's a lot of freshness.
Brian | Circle+: However, the actual application. Yes, down the line. There's normally that temptation to dial you to system. Do you have anything that you counter that? You know, physical checks and balances that really re reinforce them?
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. And this is a really nice circle question, is.
Jake Gutstein: this isn't lab work?
Jake Gutstein: so there are factors beyond your control that will be influencing this process similar to jobs. Now, hey, I have this insight, and I need to apply it to my business. There's gonna be a lot. But our fume date is in 3 months. And it's like, Oh, yeah. And that does rightfully impact the way that you should be thinking about these things.
Jake Gutstein: that said.
Jake Gutstein: having the systems in place tends to help. And so, like, I use this phrase, rupture and repair. And that, truly, is what we do. Here is like, if the system
Jake Gutstein: I'm not
Jake Gutstein: running a physics experiment in a lab where, like I get to pull a little ball back and see how far it travels across the room. I'm like
Jake Gutstein: pulling back the catapult on. You know. I'm on the shore, and, like the enemy boats are are outside and we gotta fire this thing and hit the ship right. So it's like it it. Now there's wind. Now there's rain. Now there's like a lot of stuff going on. And you have to be able to function in that environment.
Jake Gutstein: not in the environment that like makes sense in this perfect lab. And flexibility is what I have found matters there, so I view it less as dilution. If it's happening repeatedly, it may be a rupture in the system that then needs to be shifted. Hey, our approach here doesn't really work anymore. We just had this. Our 6 team member is an engineer.
Jake Gutstein: and it's like, and he's worked with our CTO. For a decade in the past.
Jake Gutstein: So they they're not skipping a beat. They're like they can code, or all of a sudden, on capacity, as it relates to shipping. Shipping is like way higher. It's like, Oh, shoot, shape up just completely broke cause like we used to have one designer, one developer we would. The cadence was totally understood. Now it's like, Are we betting on enough work? Is it too little work? We we don't know. And it's like we really quickly need to find out cause our business is as apt to like. Our problems are just as existential as those facing anybody else.
Jake Gutstein: And so it becomes just
Jake Gutstein: when
Jake Gutstein: it is a repeated breach.
Jake Gutstein: What needs to change? How do the systems that play need to change because they're all flexible? You are the one that created them. It's like, this is where.
Jake Gutstein: yeah, we're we're functioning like within our own lanes or zones of filtering information and dilution. Ho! Hopefully, I can like, I think, at my best, I will remain conscious of that, and, like, you know, when I
Jake Gutstein: ultimately falter, stumble and fall will be when I've lost track of that like in hindsight, I will look back and be like, wow! I was way too fixed or less humble than I should have been, or something like that, to the way that we're running our our company.
Brian | Circle+: Gotcha mulk. I just excuse me to let's just let me hog the mic for a minute. Here.
Brian | Circle+: The other thing that I want I want to move back to the interview is, to what extent do you still keep
Brian | Circle+: the interview centralized to you, you know. Cause one thing I'm learning very quickly is, yeah, it's great for the CEO to be in the room.
Brian | Circle+: But the engineers, you know, if you tell engineers to design box, they'll design a box. And what have the empathy that they need is to be? Do you get them involved in some shape or form in the interviews other than listening to the recordings or reading the transcripts for the jobs, interviews.
Jake Gutstein: yeah. So we did, based on interest. So I had a team member who is like, I really want to see what this is like, and she has gotten involved.
Jake Gutstein: we also stole something. So intercom does runs on jobs to be done. And when they onboard new employees they'll source interviews. They'll literally pay to source interviews. With
Jake Gutstein: clients that they, you know, like I can tell, based on how you did onboarding, that you're gonna be a good customer, interview and they will have the new interview we sit in, and we did that with our sixth hire. He sat in on 3 interviews to hear what it's like. We told him in advance. We were like, we're gonna add cause. At this point the jobs don't change unless the context of the world
Jake Gutstein: drastically changes, these jobs don't change, our understanding of them might be sharpened. But it's like no global pandemic. Then like, guess what when I move in with my partner, and I don't know how to cook, and I'm giving them day old chicken and rice, and like expecting to pass it off as dinner. And hey, this is the rest of your life. Like, yeah, I'm gonna like, there's gonna be pressure on me to change that and so like.
Jake Gutstein: we've found that gain buy in from the new employees. Obviously really important. Otherwise, though, it just has to be core like I did like the person like I. I was talking to Jeremy about, who might not have bought in on this like has said to me, multiple times, recently, like our competitive advantage, is our understanding of our customer. This is not something I ever would have thought that person would have told me. I thought I was the one who had to drill that in him. And so it's like, I, yeah, I think that
Jake Gutstein: I try to give people access. The flip side of this.
Jake Gutstein: I
Jake Gutstein: I've talked to Neil about this a bit. I like love
Jake Gutstein: this stuff. Obviously the understanding like making the rational like understanding rational and making the abstract more concrete, and like understanding how these decisions are made, is like
Jake Gutstein: where I find my passion in this journey
Jake Gutstein: and that to me is a huge red flag warning sign to be aware of, because I have to make sure that as I continue to build this company.
Jake Gutstein: I am doing what's best for the company in every given moment. Not necessarily what I drive the most passion or pleasure from doing.
Jake Gutstein: And so
Jake Gutstein: this was
Jake Gutstein: a difficult.
Jake Gutstein: It's a difficult thing. I don't necessarily know where that kicks out yet. I'm still very, very involved in it, and I still believe that's really important. What I've seen in other founders is fundraising. People are like I love it. Get me out there, get me talking about my thing, salesman in a room, chalk it up, buy a coffee like I go to the event, hold a cocktail like that's what I love doing, cause I get to talk about my thing and share with what and it's like ultimately like.
Jake Gutstein: sure. But then you never raised the round, or, like you struggle to raise the the fall. It's just like understanding where your time needs to be spent, not where you enjoy spending your time is critically important. And then also, then there's the whole thing about insecurity driving where you spend your time, and you also want to set. That's the flip side of it. And you wanna obviously hedge against that as well.
Jake Gutstein: What's up, mal.
Malc: Hey, Jake? Just first off, man, thanks. Thanks for all this. This is super super clear. Really appreciate it. You started to get in touch on on a topic I was interested more about, really around the idea of new hires and onboarding, and how explicit you are with your values and things like that. I'm curious if that spills over into your selection process, and even explicitly, what that onboarding process looks like, you know, you just mentioned shadowing some things. But curious how you translate that, or if it's something someone's meant to go in and read. Yeah, just just do you mind kind of unpacking that process.
Jake Gutstein: yeah, so
Jake Gutstein: very rare in life that you can like lean on like phrases.
Jake Gutstein: Higher, slow fire fast feels like a really
Jake Gutstein: good one and then within the onboarding of of somebody something that Neil told me one of those moments where it's like he's hopping off a call and said something offhandedly, and he's like, yeah, like it blows. My mind is like you coach to success. You change the role if the person needs that. And if that doesn't work. That's when you copied, you have to do that fairly, ruthlessly.
Jake Gutstein: on onboarding right now. We've onboarded. We we have. I'm a team of 4 founders. So we're a big founding team.
Jake Gutstein: I have a fifth employee founding team member who came on, and then the sixth person who we just added in February.
Jake Gutstein: This is not yet. At the the fifth, the fifth or sorry 6 person adding 5. The fifth person came on like pre text stars. I think Julie was on team, or maybe it was the summer. It was like she was in.
NSG (2): Yeah. Julie was right.
Jake Gutstein: So there was no like
Jake Gutstein: She's just like it's almost as if she's a founder on the team. This is our first, ever real hire. So it doesn't meet the threshold or criteria to have that outlined process. Yeah, I just. We're trying to figure out where the pain points are like, what are the forces that are acting on us in these moments? One thing that I leaned heavily on, and it seems again, though I'm like 3 months in. So like, Hey, let's catch up and like
Jake Gutstein: 6 months, or whatever a year, and I'll tell you if this worked out for us, but it's intrinsic motivation rather than extrinsic reward. It's like I can't give this person passion. I can put him in front of successful customers. I can understand or try to empathize with where he's coming from. This guy's at Grub Hub. They told him to come in 2 days a week. He's an engineer. He's like.
Jake Gutstein: what? Why, like? It doesn't make sense to me. And he was working, you know, like.
Jake Gutstein: Hey, remember, like those internal tools that took 8 and a half months to get out the door that you were shipping that they never actually implemented like, Hey, you can come over here and you'll rebuild our app within like 6 weeks, and it's like trusting him with his instinct empowering him. And again through the scope of like what the dear eyes are
Jake Gutstein: higher, slow. One thing that I'll say that I do
Jake Gutstein: obviously like still creating kind of like culture around this
Jake Gutstein: fairly, consistently, is like
Jake Gutstein: we have job interviews I would highly recommend. Who WHO. Has a book around how to hire there's also high output management that's by Andy Grove, who used to be head of Intel. Both of those are like close to Bibles for
Jake Gutstein: this, how the how to hire stuff. But essentially I can see that there aren't that many questions here. So we ask for questions
Jake Gutstein: to anybody that chose interest in a job who might slot in, because I don't. When I say hire slow. I don't mean I need an engineer. I gotta go hire an engineer ideally. What it means is I need an engineer. I'm gonna hire Fred who I talk I spoke to first time 2 years ago, who we've been in touch with, who like has always wanted to come on, and it's like, Damn! Do you imagine that level of like intrinsic drive or desire? Now every story is different. It might take place differently. But like, that's what I'm looking for. And so we we gauge them like, hey, what are your career goals? What are you really good at professionally.
Jake Gutstein: What are you not good at or not interested in professionally? And why are you interested in zest? We also say, What will your last 5 bosses like, how will they rate you on a scale of one to 10 when we speak to them? When we speak to them? Very important, it makes the question a little bit more real. What you could do if the you don't love? The answer is also pulled. The number they said, so like my boss will rate me an 8 if they can't rate you an 8. Would you be a 7 or 9? Why.
Jake Gutstein: to kind of drill down a little bit lower, deeper there. This person not asked that because they were an intern candidate. And so, you know, when you're an intern, it matters like a little bit less but this just gives a
Jake Gutstein: a very good picture. So this is like kind of how we go about hiring. I would also say
Jake Gutstein: to the degree that you guys can do.
Jake Gutstein: I lost my train of thought. Actually, if it'll if it comes back it'll it'll be important.
Malc: I appreciate that man that was really clear. Thank you for going on the extra detail as well.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, sure.
Sophie Davis: Jake. I think.
Lilliana Robinson: And say, I recognize we're at time, Jake, so I can stick around and try and answer other people's questions. I want to let you go? Do you have a hard stop? Do you want to answer the last 2 questions.
Jake Gutstein: No. So I, yeah, I actually can go a bit over
Lilliana Robinson: Great.
Jake Gutstein: So I'm like happy to stay on as long as it's like helpful, slash, tactical, but also.
Lilliana Robinson: Extremely helpful.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, likewise goes to anybody like, please don't feel awful.
Lilliana Robinson: Amazing.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's do an encore session. So I'm gonna pause. The recording. I'm gonna thank you so much.